# ModelCache features

This topic describes ModelCache features. In ModelCache, we incorporated the core principles of GPTCache. ModelCache has four modules: adapter, embedding, similarity, and data_manager.

- The adapter module orchestrates the business logic for various tasks, integrate the embedding, similarity, and data_manager modules.
- The embedding module converts text into semantic vector representations, and transforms user queries into vectors.
- The rank module ranks and evaluate the similarity of recalled vectors.
- The data_manager module manages the databases.

To make ModelCache more suitable for industrial use, we made several improvements to its architecture and functionality:

- [x] Architectural adjustment (lightweight integration):
  - Embedded into LLM products using a Redis-like caching mode.
  - Provided semantic caching without interfering with LLM calls, security audits, and other functions.
  - Compatible with all LLM services.
- [x] Multiple model loading:
  - Supported local embedding model loading, and resolved Hugging Face network connectivity issues.
  - Supported loading embedding layers from various pre-trained models.
- [x] Data isolation
  - Environment isolation: Read different database configurations based on the environment. Isolate  development, staging, and production environments.
  - Multi-tenant data isolation: Dynamically create collections based on models for data isolation, addressing data separation issues in multi-model/service scenarios within large language model products.
- [x] Supported system instruction: Adopted a concatenation approach to resolve issues with system instructions in the prompt paradigm.
- [x] Long and short text differentiation: Long texts bring more challenges for similarity assessment. Added differentiation between long and short texts, allowing for separate threshold configurations.
- [x] Milvus performance optimization: Adjusted Milvus consistency level to "Session" level for better performance.
- [x] Data management:
  - One-click cache clearing to enable easy data management after model upgrades.
  - Recall of hit queries for subsequent data analysis and model iteration reference.
  - Asynchronous log write-back for data analysis and statistics.
  - Added model field and data statistics field to enhance features.
